---
layout: post
id: 90302
author: Dennis van der Stelt
date: 20070105 065109
title: Web 2.0
description: There’s been a lot of talk about web 2.0. Personally I see difference between web 1.0...
categories:
    - Personal
redirect_from:
  - "/dennis/2007/01/05/web-2-0"
  - "/blogs/dennis/archive/2007/01/05/web-2-0.aspx"
---

There’s been a lot of talk about web 2.0.Personally I see difference between web 1.0 and web 2.0 as the following methods in a console application.

<div style="border-right: #cccccc 1pt solid;padding-right: 1pt;border-top: #cccccc 1pt solid;padding-left: 1pt;font-size: 10pt;background: #f5f5f5;padding-bottom: 1pt;overflow: auto;border-left: #cccccc 1pt solid;width: 100%;color: black;padding-top: 1pt;border-bottom: #cccccc 1pt solid;font-family: lucinda console">

<span style="color: blue">static</span> <span style="color: blue">void</span> Web10()

{

  <span style="color: #2b91af">Console</span>.WriteLine(<span style="color: #a31515">"Hello world"</span>);

}

<span style="color: blue">static</span> <span style="color: blue">void</span> Web20()

{

  <span style="color: #2b91af">Console</span>.ForegroundColor = <span style="color: #2b91af">ConsoleColor</span>.DarkGreen;

  <span style="color: #2b91af">Console</span>.WriteLine(<span style="color: #a31515">"Hello world"</span>);

}

</div>

Web20 is as half-empty or as half-full as Web10.They both return void and both output *Hello world* to my console window. The difference is, in web20 I get a dark green font, instead of the regular color.

Don’t get me wrong, I’m not saying I don’t like stuff like GMail and YouTube and more of those applications people refer to as Web 2.0.I [love](https://bloggingabout.net/2006/01/26/10882) [them](https://bloggingabout.net/2006/04/13/11967)! But ‘ordinary people’ probably won’t notice the difference. They don’t know something ‘new’ is happening before their eyes. As I don’t. And I just don’t get the fuss about why it’s so important to talk about it and let people know what you think makes up Web 2.0.It’s not about a new version, it’s about a quiet evolution you shouldn’t be talking about that much.

And now Martin Fowler [shares his thoughts](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/Web2.0.html) on Web 2.0 as well, after telling us his involvement is limited. How limited is that, you might question yourself. Because I’m not sure what existed before Web 1.0 was born, but Fowler’s website at least shows there was something. You don’t often see websites with such an outdated interface. 😉 Anyway, he quotes Nicholas Carr : “*It involves people creating and sharing stuff online. It’s a trend, a phenomenon.*” About 20 years ago I created and hosted a BBS called *AmberDawn*** and shared stuff. Everyone with a modem could go online, call my pc and download everything I shared. What a phenomenon.

All the gathering of data from different resources, the lightweight release cycle, etc is just a farce. It has been done since the beginning of the web. Maybe, just maybe WPF can/will launch a web 2.0.People can’t get into it quietly, they have to install .NET 3.0 to be able to use it. But perhaps Eric Wise will be right, and [WPF will die a silent death](http://codebetter.com/blogs/eric.wise/archive/2007/01/02/Predictions-for-2007.aspx). I sure hope it doesn’t.

My suggestion for now is to just build these so called web 2.0 applications and services already and quit wasting expensive time by talking about it.
** I think it’s great there’s still proof around the world that AmberDawn existed. Check [this](http://www.gdsoft.com/swag/sites.html) link or some Outlaw Triad links, like [here](http://outlawtriad.planet-d.net/history.htm) ([Google Cache](http://64.233.183.104/search?q=cache:eAXtJMP6oHUJ:outlawtriad.planet-d.net/history.htm+amberdawn&hl=nl&gl=nl&ct=clnk&cd=18)) or [here](http://web.textfiles.com/computers/gouraud.txt).
