---
id: 1905
author: Dennis van der Stelt
title: Dutch DevDays 2005
description: I’m looking at the sessions that are being held at the Dutch Microsoft DevDays in Den...
pubDate: '2005-01-14T12:31:00'
tags:
  - Miscellaneous
redirect_from:
  - /dennis/2005/01/14/dutch-devdays-2005
  - /blogs/dennis/archive/2005/01/14/dutch-devdays-2005.aspx
---
I’m looking at the sessions that are being held at the Dutch Microsoft DevDays in Den Haag. Noticable is that development processes get extra attention this year. I think this is very good, because a lot of people don’t use these and are even unaware of their existence. Some might already use some form of them, but not know they do.

This year there are two preconference tracks. One is about Team System, which I’m very interested about. The other is on SQL-Server 2005, ofcourse specially for developers.

One architecture track is about Software Factories, maybe the next hype. Avanade is doing this presentation and they hopefully bring some DSL into the presentation. Avanade is also presenting the new Enterprise Library which should be released this month. Microsoft is having a presentation about WhiteHorse. Most of the time, presentations won’t dive very deep into the subject, so I think the last two presentation are only interesting if you’re new to app blocks or whitehorse.

On the technology tracks, ASP.NET 2.0 is explained, an Indigo update is presented by Microsoft and VC++ 2005 is presented by Info Support. Again, the first two presentations won’t probably dive deep into the subject and if you’re interested in those subjects, you should already have seen enough of those. VC++ is probably only interesting if you’re into C++. Also Webservices in 2.0 is presented by Alex Thissen of Twice, but no description was available yet.

In the tools track, InfoPath is explained, but in the server tracks, there’s a BizTalk & InfoPath presentation also, where a full blown demo is presented. So you’d probably have to figure out which suits you best. Another interesting presentation is the Test Driven Development one by Info Support.  
Also in the server track, a SQL-Server 2005 BI & Reporting Services is presented, the service broker of SQL2005 where asynchronity in T-SQL is shown, and SQL2005 and CLR Deployment is explained through Team System and best practices.

For some tracks no description is available yet.  
On [this page](http://www.microsoft.com/netherlands/msdn/devdays/overzichtsessies.aspx) a full overview is available.

My choice would probably be:
* No choice yet for first presentation, awaiting other descriptions.  
* Software Factories (D2)  
* BizTalk & Monitoring (C3) or EntLib (D3)  
* Test Driven Development (B4)

But of course I might not be going, that entirely depends on our management, so [Mark](https://bloggingabout-linux.azurewebsites.net/mark/)… 🙂
